I don't wanna get too theoretical here but
something that is important for
you to understand is that,
Android is an Open Source Project, and
is an open source operating system.
And actually,
when we are building apps for Android,
sometimes we are building for the AOSP.
AOSP stand for
Android Open Source Project.
That's AOSP, Android Open Source Project.
But on top of that, most of
the phones that we owned these days,
they have another layer known as GMS,
that's Google Mobile Services.
And not everything that we are used to as
Android users, it's actually open source.
For example, Google Maps is
not in the open source layer.
So the same with play services
such as the Play Store, but
also some services that the OS
is offering to apps such as, for
example, Geolocation using Wi-Fi.
So those services are not available
in the open source project.
And some vendors such as Samsung,
some manufacturers are also adding
some layers on top of that.
For example, if you wanna support
the Samsung Pen, or if you wanna support
the Foldables at some points that are not
part of the other open source project.
They have libraries, they're offering for
you libraries that you can use for
those devices only.
I'm mentioning this because there are some
devices out there without the GMS layer,
okay?
So in terms of market share is
probably 5% or less than 5%.
But for example we have there.
Some examples are FireOS.
That's the OS actually available on Amazon
devices, that can be the Fire Tablet and
also the Fire Stick that you can or
Fire TV that you can connect to your TV.
Also Huawei devices, Huawei phones, so
they don't have the Google layer.
Meaning that when you're
building your app,
you need to be very careful when
you're using some API's and
libraries because those libraries might
not be available on all the phones.
If you're using libraries from
the AOSP layer, you're good,
you're good to go everywhere.
But sometimes,
you need to be very careful because
sometimes it won't be available, okay?
For the all the topics that
we're going to cover today,
we are going to be working with the AOSP.
So our app will actually work
everywhere but have in mind,
when you start adding more libraries,
and we are starting using services
from the operating system that they might
not be available for all your users.
In those cases, you need to find,
for example, Huawei,
it has an alternative map provider
that is part of their vendor software.
But yeah, then you need to start doing
some conditions in your app, okay?
If it's a Huawei device,
I need to use the Huawei map, and
if it's not,
I need to use the Google Map service.
Okay, something like that.
One of the problems of Android is that
diagram, it's device fragmentation.
This is actually from a couple of
years ago, so today is even worse.
Every rectangle that you see there
is actually a different phone.
A different device that is
actually active in the market.
So we have so many devices from so
many different vendors with so
many different characteristics,
that creating an Android application
seems a problem mostly for testing.
And that's why using a UI
framework that is flexible and
can adjust to different scenarios,
it's actually a good idea.
Compare this with iOS app development,
this is much worse.
When iOS, we have yeah three four or
five different iPhones and
maybe some iPads and that's all.
So if you wanna test our application,
you just need to test on
a couple of screen sizes.
But here, we have hundreds
of different possibilities.
So under that app development
has these challenges.
So talking about Android with Kotlin.
We're going to be building APKs.
So that's actually our output and
APKs an Android Package.
The Android Package is just a ZIP file
that will include your compile VM code,
we're going to talk about
that VM in a minute.
So your compiled code from Kotlin,
Meta data in different formats,
there are a couple of XML and
some other things there,
assets mean PNG files and
other formats that we will see later.
A signature because we
are going to sign an APK and
it's going to be installable .apk via
the Play Store or other app stores.
And today,
the Play Store since the beginning
of 2022 doesn't support APKs anymore.
So we have APK, that's the output
of our building solution but
actually, the Play Store
will need another file.
It's called AAB, Android App Bundle.
At the end of today's workshop, we're
going to see how to build both, okay?
So the APK is actually the actual format
that the phone is going to take but
the Play Store needs another format,
it's called AAB.
And then the Play Store will build
the final APK for your users,
that's kind of thing.
You can also publish or distribute
your app through enterprise solutions.
So if you're working for a company and
the company has some portals or
system like enterprise solutions,
where they can actually ship the app
to their employees without actually
going into the public App Store.
And also, you can install your
APK in your device through a USB.
We're going to see how to connect
your phone in case you have one in
Android Studio, or other method, I mean,
I can polish the APK on your website,
I can create my own App Store or
things like that, okay?
So to actually make that happen,
your users need to disable some
security rules on the phone to
install an APK from untrusted sources,
but it's technically possible, okay?
So that's why we're going to build,
that's the output of our project
when we are building Android apps,
no matter the framework or
the language that you're using.